[docs] Add a guide on how to build apps locally (#24371)
expo/expo: docs/pages/guides/local-app-development.mdx

---
title: Local app development
description: Learn how to compile and build your app locally when using Expo.
---

import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { BookOpen02Icon, BuildIcon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons';
import { CODE } from '~/ui/components/Text';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';
import { Tabs, Tab } from '~/ui/components/Tabs';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

To build your project into an app locally using your machine, you have to manually generate native code before testing the debug build or creating a production build for it to submit to the app store. There are two ways you can build your app locally. This guide provides a brief introduction to both methods and references to other guides that are necessary to create this workflow.

## Prerequisites

To follow the steps described in this guide, see the instructions below on how to set your development environment.

<Collapsible summary="Android">

<Tabs>

<Tab label='macOS'>

> To set up your development environment on macOS for Android, you've to install Node.js, Watchman, JDK, and Android Studio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up your development environment on macOS for Android, you will install Node.js, Watchman, JDK, and Android Studio.
```

you've is not correct grammar here -- "you have" can't be abbreviated to "you've"

[Install Watchman](https://facebook.github.io/watchman/docs/install#macos) using a tool such as Homebrew:

<Terminal cmd={['$ brew install watchman']} />

</Step>

<Step label="3">

Install OpenJDK distribution called Azul Zulu using Homebrew. This distribution offers JDKs for both M1 and Intel Macs.

We recommend JDK 11 (you may encounter problems with higher JDK versions). Run the following commands in a terminal window to install it:

<Terminal
  cmd={['$ brew tap homebrew/cask-versions', '$ brew install --cask zulu11']}
  cmdCopy="brew tap homebrew/cask-versions && brew install --cask zulu11"
/>

After you install the JDK, add the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable in **~/.bash_profile** (or **~/.zshrc** if you use Zsh):

```bash
export JAVA_HOME=/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/zulu-11.jdk/Contents/Home
```

</Step>

#### Install and configure Android Studio

Android Studio allows installing Android SDK, Android SDK Platform, and Android Virtual Device. They are required to set up the Android development environment. Follow the [instructions on the Android Studio Emulator](/workflow/android-studio-emulator/) to install these tools.

</Tab>

<Tab label='Windows'>

> To set up your development environment on Windows for Android, you've to install Node.js, JDK, and Android Studio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up your development environment on Windows for Android, you will install Node.js, JDK, and Android Studio.
```

#### Prerequisites

Use a package manager such as [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/) to install the following dependencies.

#### Install dependencies

<Step label="1">

Install the LTS version of Node.js using Chocolatey:

<Terminal cmd={['$ choco install -y nodejs']} />

If you have already installed Node.js on your system, make sure the version is 16 or above. If you want to be able to switch between different versions, you might want to install Node.js using a version manager such as [`nvm-windows`](https://github.com/coreybutler/nvm-windows).

</Step>

<Step label="2">

Install [Java SE Development Kit (JDK)](https://openjdk.org/projects/jdk/11/):

<Terminal cmd={['$ choco install -y microsoft-openjdk11']} />

If you already have JDK installed on your system, we recommend JDK11.

</Step>

#### Install and configure Android Studio

Android Studio allows installing Android SDK, Android SDK Platform, and Android Virtual Device. They are required to set up the Android development environment. Follow the [instructions on the Android Studio Emulator](/workflow/android-studio-emulator/) to install these tools.

</Tab>

<Tab label="Linux">

> To set up your development environment on Linux for Android, you've to install Node.js, Watchman, JDK, and Android Studio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up your development environment on Linux for Android, you will install Node.js, Watchman, JDK, and Android Studio.
```

<Terminal cmd={['$ brew install watchman']} />

</Step>

<Step label="3">

Install Xcode using the [App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/xcode/id497799835?mt=12). This tool will also install the iOS Simulator. You will also need to [install Command Line Tools](/workflow/ios-simulator/#install-xcode-command-line-tools).

</Step>

<Step label="4">

[Install CocoaPods](https://guides.cocoapods.org/using/getting-started.html). You can install using the version of Ruby that ships with the latest macOS version.

</Step>

</Collapsible>

## Local app compilation

To build your project locally you can use compile commands from Expo CLI which generates the **android** and **ios** directories:

<Terminal
  cmd={[
    '# Build native Android project',
    '$ npx expo run:android',
    '# Build native iOS project',
    '$ npx expo run:iOS',
  ]}
/>

The above commands compile your project into an app locally. You can also add the `--device` flag to create a debug build of your project and run it on a connected device. These compilation commands initially run `npx expo prebuild` to generate native directories (**android** and **ios**) before building.

> To modify your project's configuration or native code after the first build, you've to rebuild your project. Running `npx expo prebuild` again layers the changes on the top of existing files. It may also produce different results after the build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To modify your project's configuration or native code after the first build, you will have to rebuild your project. Running `npx expo prebuild` again layers the changes on the top of existing files. It may also produce different results after the build.
```

---
title: Local app development
description: Learn how to compile and build your app locally when using Expo.
---

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { BookOpen02Icon, BuildIcon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons';
import { CODE } from '~/ui/components/Text';

To build your project into an app locally using your machine, you have to manually generate native code before testing the debug build or creating a production build for it to submit to the app store. There are two ways you can build your app locally. This guide provides a brief introduction to both methods and references to other guides that are necessary to create this workflow.

## Prerequisites

> To follow the steps described in this guide, install the following tools on your local machine:

Reviewer: we might want to link to the relevant sections of react-native docs here for more complete instructions, until we have a chance to write our own (assuming we want to):

- https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup?platform=ios
- https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup?platform=android

Author: We do cover how to set up tools in our docs: https://docs.expo.dev/workflow/android-studio-emulator/ & https://docs.expo.dev/workflow/ios-simulator/ but I think if we want to, we can expand on that and also connect this guide and our getting started guide.

Author: Added instructions on setting the environment for Android (on macOS, windows, & linux) and iOS (on macOS).

**Preview for Android**
![CleanShot 2023-09-18 at 21 53 21](https://github.com/expo/expo/assets/10234615/76456aba-0288-4404-a100-a1eebbfa975c)

![CleanShot 2023-09-18 at 22 02 25](https://github.com/expo/expo/assets/10234615/f66b8504-9406-469d-8d14-2a299ef2b814)

**Preview for iOS**
![CleanShot 2023-09-18 at 21 52 58](https://github.com/expo/expo/assets/10234615/18d25055-1512-4b3a-a12c-5b60b10cde12)

Author: FYI, will follow up with relevant instructions to install Android tools using Studio on Windows and update this guide (https://docs.expo.dev/workflow/android-studio-emulator/) in a follow up PR.

- [Android Studio](/workflow/android-studio-emulator/) to build for Android
- [Xcode](/workflow/ios-simulator/) on macOS to build for iOS

## Local app compilation

To build your project locally you can use compile commands from Expo CLI which generates the **android** and **ios** directories:

<Terminal
  cmd={[
    '# Build native Android project',
    '$ npx expo run:android',
    '# Build native iOS project',
    '$ npx expo run:iOS',
  ]}
/>

The above commands compile your project into an app locally. You can also add the `--device` flag to create a debug build of your project and run it on a connected device. These compilation commands initially run `npx expo prebuild` to generate native directories (**android** and **ios**) before building.

After building your project for the first time, you can modify your project's configuration or native code. However, it is recommended to make these modifications using [app config](/workflow/configuration/) or by creating a [config plugin](/config-plugins/introduction/).

> To learn more about how compilation and prebuild works, see the following guides:

Reviewer: we might want to explicitly call out gitignoring ios and android directories and `prebuild --clean` here, since not knowing about these concepts trip people up pretty quickly once they start doing local builds

Author: Added info about the importance of .gitignore and `--clean` flag:

![CleanShot 2023-09-18 at 22 16 35](https://github.com/expo/expo/assets/10234615/3054dae3-cd24-4160-bd9d-8f791e96639c)
